# Improved_ROUND_ROBIN_ALGORITHM
The Traditional ROUND ROBIN ALGORITHM can lead to higher waiting time for high-priority process despite using Time Quantum and preemption .The proposed algorithm reduces the average waiting time of High Priority processes in all cases significantly and of Low Priority processes in not all but some cases.

This project is an implementation of a Research Paper named "Improved Round Robin CPU Scheduling Algorithm based on Priority of Process" by Govind Prasad Arya1*, Kumar Nilay2, Devendra Prasad3.

Main objective of this Improved Algorithm is to overcome the limitation of traditional RR scheduling algorithm and maximize CPU utilization, further, leading to more efficient and faster system. This algorithm categorizes available processes into High Priority processes and Low Priority process. The proposed algorithm reduces the average waiting time of High Priority processes in all cases and of Low Priority processes in not all but some cases. The overall waiting time changes on the basis of set of processes considered. The simulation results justify that the proposed schemes reduces the overall average waiting time when compared to the existing schemes.

The Round Robin (RR) CPU scheduling algorithm considers all the jobs, which are present in ready queue as equal priority jobs. It offers identical chance to all the jobs to execute in CPU for dura- tion called Time Quantum (TQ). So, a process can be executed by the CPU until its time quantum (TQ) terminates or the process terminates by its own after conclusion of its CPU worst time. It may be probable that processes present in ready queue are of diverse priority i.e. high or low. Some processes may need Central Processing Unit on urgent basis (i.e. program to shut down com- puter because of temperature exceeded, alert on unauthorized access, etc.) are called high priority jobs. On the other hand, an- other type of processes is with normal priority

Link to the original Research Paper - 327964264_An_Improved_Round_Robin_CPU_Scheduling_Algorithm_based_on_Priority_of_Process
